Propose Events SIG (#91)
cdfoundation/toc: sigs/sig-events.md

This group is looking at how events can help to create CI/CD systems with a decoupled architecture that is easy to scale and makes it resilient to failures. Using events could also increase automation when connecting workflows from different systems to each other, and as a result empowering tracing/visualizing/auditing of the connected workflows through these events.

### Purpose
The group focuses on the use of events to provide interoperability through topics like:
- When are events suited? For triggers, audits, monitoring, management
  - Common guidelines for at-least-once, at-most-once, exactly once, ordering… When to apply what strategy?
- Best practices for event-driven CI/CD systems
- Events to be used by tools for orchestration/workflows
- Pipeline to pipeline communication via events
- Tracing/auditing/graphing/visualizing of the entire process, e.g., through events. What truly occurs?
- Metrics, e.g., how many versions have been deployed, how many PRs (Pull Requests) have been raised, how many events have been issued?  
- How are events related and how are they ordered (links vs trace context)?

### Outcome

> The group is working on a standardized event protocol that caters for technology agnostic machine-to-machine communication in CI/CD systems. This specification will be published, reviewed and agreed upon between relevant Linux Foundation projects/members.

Reviewer: I'm curious to understand the need for a new *protocol*.  with a lot of companies standardizing on either grpc, httpv2 or websockets for communication between tooling do we really need something at this lower level or are you talking about having a *common schema* for events with a set of APIs inside these tools that provides communication in a standard way?  the other concern i have around implementing a *protocol* is the growing number of SaaS/Cloud offerings on the marketing, getting data in and out of tools that are deployed on-premises will require security teams to get involved in approving connectivity between disparate tools.  i ❤️  the initiative between the Interoperability SIG and the Event SIG.  Sould also be aware of other standards in this segment around [CNAB](https://cnab.io/) that purpose to do the same thing, although implemented a little differently.

Reviewer 2: Hi @leefaus, thank you for your comment and for the link to CNAB.

Our intention is indeed to work at a higher level on the stack; we definitely do not intend to create another grpc, httpv2 or websockets. We could call the result of our work a _common schema_ instead of _protocol_; in any case it sounds like we should make sure our intentions are clear in the documentation. Our plan is - at least for cloud native platforms - is to base our work on top of [CloudEvents](https://cloudevents.io/) which includes SDKs for several programming languages, and [bindings ](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/tree/master#cloudevents-documents) for several protocols.

The group aims to provide reference implementations such as event listeners and event senders on top of CloudEvents.

## Members
*In alphabetical order, except for the chairs*
* Andrea Fritolli (IBM) - Co-chair
* Emil Bäckmark (Ericsson) - Co-chair
* Andreas Grimmer (Dynatrace)
* Cameron Motevasselani (Armory)
* Erik Sternerson (doWhile)
* Mattias Linnér (Ericsson)
* Mauricio Salatino (Camunda / LearnK8s)
* Ravi Lachhman (Harness)
* Steve Taylor (DeployHub)
* Tracy Ragan (DeployHub)

TOC Sponsor: \<TBD\>

## Communication
Communication in this SIG is primarily done through its [Slack channel](https://cdeliveryfdn.slack.com/archives/C0151BTKEJX)

## Meetings

> The SIG meets every second Monday, at 4 PM CET. Meeting notes can be seen [here](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/workstreams/events_in_cicd/meetings.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The SIG meets on the 1st and 3rd Monday, at 4 PM CET. Meeting notes can be seen [here](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/workstreams/events_in_cicd/meetings.md)
```
